{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs20\kerning28 Normal
;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\deftab720\pgnstart1
\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
{\header\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\headery720
{\footer\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\footery720
Sean Connolly\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Abstract 
Algebra\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 11-4-03\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Essay #2\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28  \tab In 
Alexander George and Daniel J. Velleman\u8217\'92s {\i Philosophies of Mathematics
}, many ideas of logic along with mathematics are brought up.  The concept of reason
 is brought up in the second chapter as well as what logic is and how arithmetic
 can be derived from it.  Logic is not based on our experiences and should be truth
 for whoever it is that is reflecting on it.  It is important that our basic truths
 do not cause any disagreement and that our new experiences don\u8217\'92t change
 our basic truths.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab In {\i
Philosophies of Mathematics}, it is said that Gottlob Frege thought that all mathematics
 comes down to experience.  We can see that this is true.  It would be very difficult
 to prove that one and one is two.  However, in our daily experience, this is exactly
 what happens, therefore anything that follows this logic is easy for us to believe
.  One apple and one apple makes two apples, who would disagree?  Well, a disagreement
 would occur if someone from another world overheard our conversation.  On his world
 the gravity is so strong that if you put one apple and one apple in a bucket, it
 turns into one apple.  His perception of the word will be different from ours and
 in this way his perception of mathematics will also be different.  Therefore if
 we all have different experiences that are not related to each other, mathematics
 would not be a valid means of communicating and explaining our world.  If, however
, logic has nothing to do with our world and our experiences, then it would be a
 perfect means of communication, even to our confused friend on a different world
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab If no
 one could agree on certain axioms, which are the indefinable \u8220\'93truths\u8221
\'94 of mathematics, the field of mathematics would not exist.  Even though some
 people may not feel comfortable on having their faith in these axioms that they
 cannot prove, we can at least all agree that they make logical sense.  Each one
 is a very simple statement that no one can refute.  These axioms are in a way basic
 logic.  As stated on page 15 of the text, \u8220\'93logic does not aim to describe
 how humans think, but instead to characterize how they must think if their thought
 is to remain within the bounds of reason.\u8221\'94  This is why we have these 
axioms, because they make logical sense to us and stay within {\i our} bounds of
 reason.  Now, we have to ask, what is reason?  It seems that some of the more brilliant
 ideas and technical advances in the last century have defied reason.  for example
 getting a huge amount of energy from only 9 kilograms or so of Uranium in an atom
 bomb, a particle disappearing and reappearing, mass increasing as velocity increases
.  All of these things defy what would have normally been called \u8220\'93reason
\u8221\'94 not too long ago and now we take it all in as fact.  Some \u8220\'93unorthodox
\u8221\'94 thinking has lead us to a higher truth and it should not be believed 
that statements can\u8217\'92t be true if they don\u8217\'92t immediately seem logical
.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Logic
 is the way things work in which we can not argue about beliefs and hunches, logic
 will always state the truth.  But we see now that logic appears to be based on 
how we perceive the world; for if it isn\u8216\'91t, than one plus one would equal
 one making depositing money into a bank counterproductive.  If suddenly the things
 we see aren\u8217\'92t exactly what they seem to be we can\u8217\'92t simply start
 a new logic system in order to include it.  For instance particle-wave duality 
is now a solid theory, but that doesn\u8217\'92t mean that we have to add this into
 our form of logic and change the whole system so it is no longer (P or ~P), but
 ((P or ~P) or (P and ~P)).  Logic it seems, then, has nothing to do with our experiences
 if we do not change logic because of new experiences.  Therefore it is almost as
 if logic exists outside of the mind and is no longer restrained to the psychology
 and experiences of the human being.  It is instead near fact, no matter who you
 are, where you live and what you believe.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab It is
 strange how human beings are fully capable of acquiring knowledge without experiencing
 an event but rather by thought and reflection.  Knowledge can even be gained in
 subjects in which there are no applications or ways to test this new knowledge 
without looking through math.  This is the importance of a rigorous proof.  You 
cannot point at a bucket of apples and say \u8220\'932 plus 2 is four QED.\u8221
\'94  You need to find that it is internally and eternally true, which can only 
be done within mathematics and logic.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab It might
 not be as apparent counting apples in a bucket, but we can see that the number 
world and the real world aren\u8217\'92t the same thing.  for instance where can
 you find an example of where you can use a zeta-zero in a real world situation?  
You probably don\u8217\'92t even know what it is because it is not useful in your
 life at all.  There are many subjects in mathematics which have no apparent application
, but are not therefore useless.  These subjects can be built upon and maybe be 
used in a proof of a conjecture that seems to be helpful in some application.  The
 world of mathematics are filled with equations and definitions that we won\u8217
\'92t use on a regular basis in the \u8220\'93real\u8221\'94 world, but instead 
help us to prove such things as differentiation and showing that we can find the
 acceleration of an object at any given point and so on.  This happens to be a very
 useful application in physics.  Indeed, \u8220\'93useless\u8221\'94 is not a word
 that can be applied to mathematics unless you can prove logically that a particular
 equation could never be applied to anything.  I\u8217\'92m sure this is possible
 and if it is done will mean that the equation is not useless after all because 
it was used in order to prove something else which may or may not be useful in and
 of itself.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Logic
 is a needed tool if we ever want to get anything done.  It is also needed by means
 of communication, not just in mathematics but in the physical world as well.  One
 needs to be able to communicate to another that one way of doing things makes more
 sense than another.  Mathematics in itself is a very intriguing subject and although
 we have been taught (through experience) that it is boring and useless, we find
 at higher levels of mathematics that this is not entirely true.  It seems enough
 to enthrall a student and it seems enough as far as usefulness is concerned for
 its intrigue and ability to produce knowledge from pure reflection.\par}

}