{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs20\kerning28 Normal
;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\deftab720\pgnstart1
\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
{\header\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\headery720
{\footer\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\footery864
Sean Connolly\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Modeling 
Motion\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 3-10-04\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Evaluation
 Worksheet\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 1.   I took
 this program mostly for the purposes of learning physics and programming.  I felt
 that I lacked knowledge and experience in these two subjects and wanted to take
 them because I was sure they would make me more well-rounded as well as more qualified
 for the field of study I would like to get more involved in:  cryptographics. I
 only did visual basic programming for a quarter a few years ago, but I didn\u8217
\'92t really get it, so I wanted to try a different language and decide once and
 for all if programming was meant for me.   One of my friends has been taking computer
 classes at Evergreen for 4 years and recommended this school for me to study mathematics
 as well as the other sciences I was interested in.  So far, it seems promising.  
I was hoping this quarter to brush up in calculus, learn the basic laws of physics
 and understand how the world I live in works as well as finally understanding what
 my computer is doing behind the scenes and be able to get it to do my bidding.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 2.  The most
 important and interesting thing I learned this year was probably relativity, even
 though we aren\u8217\'92t entirely through it yet.  I always wondered what it had
 to do with E=mc^2 and exactly what it was and what it meant.  I believe now that
 I have a better understanding of that and I have been motivated to go out and buy
 a few books on the same subject in order to understand it better.  One being, \u8220
\'93The Meaning of Relativity\u8221\'94 by Albert Einstein.  I hope to finish that
 book this break and come back with a ridiculous amount of knowledge on the subject
.  When people think of physics, they think of Einstein and that\u8217\'92s why 
I think it is the most important thing I learned all quarter.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 3.  One thing
 I am proud of is my final take-home test.  Even though I haven\u8217\'92t gotten
 it back yet, the physics and calculus part of it just spewed out of me and that
\u8217\'92s when I knew that I just might understand the material.  The one thing
 I am most proud of, though, which I accomplished this quarter, is a program I wrote
 in python outside of the scope of the class.  It is my Rubik's cube program which
 I have been trying to get to work since day one.  And I can now proudly say that
 it works and I will spend next quarter adding new functions to it, making it better
.  I am most proud of this program because it is what I have to show for what I 
learned in programming, being the only totally original program I did all quarter
, which I started from scratch.  Even though the assigned programs were still cool
, I never really felt like the programs were my own, where this one is.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 4.  The most
 challenging part of the class was the physics.  There were a lot of concepts to
 remember and a lot of old ideas to forget.  The homework for physics certainly 
took the longest and it\u8217\'92s what ate up most of my eraser, but it was very
 rewarding when a homework assignment was done and I knew I understood everything
 I needed to up to that point.  The readings in physics also took the longest as
 well.  I was able to read the calculus book with no problem, but the physics one
 required me to work through the examples, taking a much longer time to complete
 an entire chapter.  After \u8220\'93working through\u8221\'94 the text, however
, I felt that I knew the material, even though I would have to flip back a lot while
 doing the homework assignments, which I\u8217\'92m sure is expected.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 5.  I am 
certainly an independent learner.  I pay attention as much as possible to my professors
, but I\u8217\'92m sure most of my learning is done at home reading through the 
text and working through either problems in the book or derivatives of them I create
 for extra practice on the ones that I think I need a better understanding of.  
My whiteboard at home was probably the tool that helped me most throughout the quarter
.  It is next to my computer and allowed me to work through things in my head in
 a more visual way as well as remind me in bold red letters at the top of it what
 I should be doing every waking hour ,\u8220\'93{\b WORK!}\u8221\'94  I feel that
 I learned a lot more this quarter from paying attention to lectures than I have
 in other classes.  That could either have to do with good lecturing, good note 
taking, or my own enthusiasm.  I still believe that showing up to class and paying
 attention every day is the sure way to succeed; there are some things that are 
hard to learn on one\u8217\'92s own.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 6.  I tried
 to read every chapter in the calculus book before we had the lectures and workshops
 in order to better my knowledge of the subject at hand.  I was able to get ahead
 in the eighth week, though, in the calculus book and had it read up to chapter 
11, so I could have more time to concentrate on the physics which was starting to
 take up a lot more time by then.  The physics book I didn\u8217\'92t get to read
 until, usually, after the lectures, which was unfortunate, but may have also been
 beneficial because otherwise it may have taken even longer to get through every
 page.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab The homework
 always seemed to take a lot longer than I expected and it was difficult to get 
each assignment done before it was due, let alone in a legible fashion.   I was 
able to finish all of the assignments, however, though not on time, but was happier
 to have them completed and well thought out rather than hurriedly and sloppily 
put together just in order to meet an arbitrary deadline.  I respect an instructor
\u8217\'92s desire to have things done on a certain day, but I don\u8217\'92t want
 that to impede on my desire to do well and learn as much as possible on each assignment
 which is the point in doing them anyway.  This is the one thing that gets me in
 trouble the most, but I stand by my philosophy.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab It is
 hard to put a number down for hours worked per week on the assignments and on the
 readings.  It certainly changed from week to week depending on the material and
 what I was able to get done in class.  Some weeks I had to put in a lot of extra
 time for the worksheets at home after the workshops because it was simply more 
work than I could get done in class.  At least three hours of time was spent each
 week on the physics homework as well as the calculus homework.  Of course some 
assignments took longer and some shorter.  The programming took a lot of time out
 as well.  It is harder to put a number on this though, because some of that time
 was spent on my own projects which although I was doing in order to better my skills
 in programming, they were not any assignments.  Reading took more than an hour 
and a half per week for calculus until I spent a weekend getting ahead in it.  The
 physics was probably about the same, but I am still trying to stay up to date in
 that as well.  This doesn\u8217\'92t include time spend on tests, or studying for
 tests, which if added in the average would bring another two hours or so on each
 week even though it was from work done in only two weeks of class.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 7.  The only
 thing I always regret after each quarter is not getting my assignments turned in
 on time.  Even though I am happy to get them done, I would be happier to get them
 done with the same quality at the time they should be done.  This would require
 more time spent on them during the week instead of using the next weekend or later
 to finish them up.  It\u8217\'92s hard to see how I could manage my time differently
 in order to accomplish this, but next quarter it will be my 3rd goal after doing
 well on tests and showing up to almost every class again.  It would be helpful 
if the future assignments were posted earlier than they are so I could get started
 on them as soon as I can, but it\u8217\'92s more just about my attitude.  Surly
 I can turn in unfinished assignments before I feel good about them as long as I
 get them done in the future. Although the 1.5 and 2.0 scores that I got on the 
assignments at the beginning of the quarter seemed disheartening; I think that, 
in itself, told me I needed to work harder on them.  My \u8220\'93perfectionist\u8221
\'94 attitude toward my work is the one trait I have which I should be mindful of
 in the future.  I just don\u8217\'92t like turning in anything that is not my best
 work.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 8.  I plan
 to stay with the entire program next quarter.  I don\u8217\'92t know what the programming
 part has in store, but I\u8217\'92m sure I will do fine in it.  I think that is
 what most people are afraid of next quarter, but I think I will do okay.  I think
 I am doing well in the rest of the class and I really want to continue on with 
physics and calculus and learn as much as I can next quarter.}}